# Cohort-Analysis
Cohort Analysis on online retail dataset.

**COHORT ANALYSIS** 
Cohort analysis is a kind of behavioral analytics that breaks the data in a data set into related groups before analysis. These groups, or cohorts, usually share common characteristics or experiences within a defined time-span. It examine the behavior and performance of groups of users related by common attributes. A cohort is a group of users who share a common characteristic that is identified in this report by an Analytics dimension. The Cohort Analysis report lets you isolate and analyze cohort behavior. 
This analysis could be helpful for the business in order to take the marketing strategies or the money to be spended on the advertising and many more decisions as per the requiremennts from domain to domain.
 
 **Dataset**
I used the “Online Retail Data Set” from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. This is a transaction data set containing all the transaction between 12/01/2010 and 12/09/2011 for UK-based online retail. The number of instances is around half a million. It is a relatively clean data set for exploring the usability and testing for customer behavior, especially for cohort analysis.
link - https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/online+retail 

**Methodology**
- Dataset exploration, cleaning and pre-processing.
- Create a cohort and conduct cohort analysis.
- Visualize the cohort analysis results
 
 **The metrics which are calculated in this file are -**
 1. **Customer Cohort -** Customer cohort is the total numer of new customer acquired in each cohort month and their retention in subsequent months.
 2. **Customer Retention by cohort -** It is just the percentage retention of customers from the first month of cohort.
 3. **Net Revenue by Cohort -** It is the net revenue generated by each cohort month and its subsequent months.
 4. **Net Revenue Retention -** It is th percentage retention of net revenue.
 5. **Customer Lifetime Revenue by cohort -** It is the average revenue generated by each customer w.r.t each cohort month.
 6. **Customer Lifetime Value -** Customer lifetime value is the total pofit generated by each customer w.r.t each cohort month.

**Conclusion**
It is a powerful tool for tracking user behaviors on the product. Furthermore, it is highly flexible. The time period can be changed from month to week even day-basis. Multiple metrics can be used in the diverse behavioral measurement.
Hence, this _"Cohort Analysis"_ is a very useful tool in every business.
